1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?
2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?
3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program
4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?  
## Answers
1. I discovered my interest in programming in one of the last courses I took finishing my Bachelor in Banking and Finance. The course is financial modeling where we use excel(Macro) to write queries and commands. Then, I noticed how good i was in following the detailed steps and rules, and how efficient I can be working towards an idea you envision to be the end reult of your long hours work. I liked how specific and delicate programming can be. I always had that passion for details and designs, I realized in that course that I can combine both in programming.      
I always had that passion but never thought it was possible to change course and go back to school and study computer science all over again, especially with all the daily and financial responsibilities of becoming a mom, until I knew about ADA! It gave me the hope, that even after finishing my bachelor and working in the Financial industry, I can still switch careers to what I really love.      
I have used excel ever since, unfortunately not as good as I would want to be.I still became a bit of spreadsheet addict. I have also learned HTML and Markdown, in the near past , after I learned about ADA, because ADA showed me that things can happen and are possible, and that their is this community that is willing to help you do it and that I am not the only one thinking like that!  
2. My 5 years plan will be to become an excellent and well reputable software developer. I want to contribute to the technical industry that is driving this planet to become a better place, and helping us prove ourselves to be the smartest species ever discovered. I see new technologies everyday and discoveries, I know that I have the potential to make a difference, but I just need the tools.     
I am a woman and a foreigner that has come to this first world country few years ago, seeing all these Big five companies drive the rest of the world, I know my potential and the effect I can have in this process and I am so eager to be part of it. So in 5 years from today, I want to be able to speak out in the society and say Yes I am Zeinab and this what I have done, and thats what I can change because I am able and Capable.     
3. The fact of joing ADA by itself will help me become a contributor because it will empower me and help me speak up. And before I help myself I won't be able to help others. I have always felt excluded from this society, by being a muslim and an Arab, i always saw the prejudice in some people. I too have a voice, and once its loud enough I can speak for who went through what I go through. At that point I hope I will be encouraged by my surrounding to participate in woman organizations and minority groups, I will be able to inspire weak fellows that it is possible and real that we can make a change and can speak and that it is true that there is someone who will listen and is willing to help. I will be a person who wants to participate in activities and show the society and the whole world, that it is true there is minority and majority, but also there is good in every person and that the world will be a better place when we let the good float to the surface and accept each and everyone of this world. Modesty is the key, there is no race, or religion, or nationality that is better than the other. Each person represents one's self, each and everyone of us is a unique person of a unique DNA, mentality, and personality, and that's how we empower each other by being different and learning from each other. This is the person I am, this is how I think and what I believe in, I will become a stronger person and i will become capable of making a change. Because of applying only, i was able to let all this out in one paragraph, and made me realize that even if I wasn't accepted (which i truly hope that I will be) I should start working on one'sself and contribute more to the society, any bit of participation is a step towards a bigger change.    
4. When I was applying for college, I didnt know what I was passionate about and what did I want to study exactly. At that time I only heard people say study something that will pay you well and that will have plenty of opportunities for you in the future, and make sure you choose a good university because it makes all the difference when you apply to a job. What is the benefit of having a future full of opportunities if you dont see yourself in any of them, if you feel that everyday you do what you "have" to do, not because you like it or you are good at it. I was good at it, we all know practice makes perfect, but this didn't matter anymore. Studying finance has changed the course of my life to a life that I have never wished for and never wanted. To be able to study finance in one of the top Universities in Lebanon, I had to work 3 jobs to be able to save for the tuition (college employment, tutoring,McDonalds). During that period, I had no friends, no hobbies, no activities. I was pushing myself to the edge everyday. I got a scholarship which helped me drop one of the jobs I had. but still some days I woke up to realize this and see how empty you I felt, with all the accomplishments, relative to my classmates and workmates,I still felt I had no purpose. Having a school degree is not all an ambitious person needs, but I came to believe that this type of a person needs something to feed his/her passion and make it real and not just a dream, then the limit is the sky.  
I have learned alot from this mistake. I have to come to realize that You are not what your Bachelor degree says you are, but what you feel passionate about, you are not what you do, but how much you love what you do, you are not how much you get paid everyday, but you are why you wake up everyday. This taught me how to look at life. I am not defined by my career but by the person I am, so I should pick my career based on who I am and not the other way around.  
If I had the chance to do it differently, I would give myself the time and not rush into things just for the sake of applying. I would have stepped out of the picture, looked at that situation from the other angle and decided differently. Being lost should have been a sign for me to realize that I need time to figure things out, and I need to know who I am before I take any step, because that's what matters at the end of the day. If I knew exactly who I am and what I want to be I wouldnt have been so confused and go listen to what people say. Bottom line I shouldn't have rushed, I should have been more thorough and cautious.   
